---
date: Tue Aug 08 2017 10:56:50 GMT+1000 (AEST)
---

# tracking down a CircleCI issue

- One of our branches is failing

- lots of `ECONNRESET` errors in npm install

- then it ends with _"callback was called more than once"_

- trying a rebuild
  - got the same 2 failures again, so I think we can rule out an intermittent connection error

- trying out locally with same version of node (v4.2.6) and npm (v2.14.12)
  - using https://github.com/creationix/nvm
  - `nvm install 4.2.6`
  - or if it's already installed, just `nvm use 4.2.6`
  - confirm by running `npm -v`, should display `2.14.12`
  
- that all appears to have worked fine.

- looking back over the circleci error log, I'm going to start by assuming that the _"callback called more than once"_ is a symptom rather than a cause. We can come back to this later if nothing else is turned up.

- top suspects now are:
  - is circleci doing some proxying, which accounts for the difference between it and my local?
  - I notice that circleci gets this warning, but I don't locally: `WARN engine csswring@5.1.1: wanted: {"node":">=5.0.0"} (current: {"node":"4.2.6","npm":"2.14.12"})`

- made a PR that tells circleci to use node6. That built fine.

- looking closely at the failing branch I don't see any changes to `package.json`, so I'll try merging my node upgrade into this and see how that goes.

- merging the upgrade branch into the failing branch
  - it worked!

- I still don't know exactly why this was working earlier, then started failing. Possibly a change at circleci, or in one of the npm packages.  If this happens again we can compare the 2 and see if there is a common pattern.
