---
date: Thu Aug 10 2017 12:48:25 GMT+1000 (AEST)
---

# js dependencies

gradually emerging thought: I love how node / npm has paved the way for us to break big things up into lots of little things. This is great for exploration. But there comes a time where you want to set up a longer-term residence. So along with our tools for breaking things up, we also need good tools for gluing them together.

If I'm looking at my own personal patterns, there's a thing I do *a lot* while writing code. Upon realising I need to use a certain package, I:

1. `npm install --save` it
1. `require` it
1. use it

There is a very specific order to this. If I follow those steps in any order other than the above (and are using some kind of watch-trigger like build or lint) then something will break.

What if I could just jump to "use it" and let the computer figure out the rest? We can't automate it entirely, because an unknown token might actually be a misspelled known token. It would be expensive (and potentially dangerous) to go auto-installing things willy nilly. But where we can't automate, we can suggest. Eg:

- when an unknown token is found, inform the developer to either correct spelling or accept a suggested edit (add `require`, and `npm install -S`)

Alternatively, we could automate just the stuff between steps 1 and 2. So you can `require` anything you like, and it will automatically be installed and added to the package.json. Possiblyt still want a suggestion workflow rather than full automation, as sometimes you want the ability to specify a version.

## survey of existing tools

- quickly trying `import-js` with https://github.com/galooshi/emacs-import-js
- love being able to jump from a `require` to the module. Although it feels a bit slow and I wonder whether this is already solved better with "ctags" style approaches. Or at very least, computing in advance rather than on-the-fly.
- I haven't been able to get it to automatically insert a `require` yet. Maybe I'm doing something wrong.

- `tern` has something similar for browsing dependencies: http://ternjs.net/doc/manual.html#plugin_node_resolve
