---
date: Thu Aug 17 2017 11:15:28 GMT+1000 (AEST)
---

# node app design principles

Some opinions I've formed from past experiences developing / maintaining / deploying node apps. Work-in-progress :)

## Minimum viable README

README should contain _just enough_ to get started. All power-user stuff can go in `docs/`.

## Crash early with good descriptions

If there is an env var that the app needs to run, or a database connection, or a setup step was missed, the app should crash immediately and give an informative description of what is missing.

## Node on the host, docker for others

There is some appeal to running the _entire_ stack in docker, but I'm not convinced it's an optimal dev environment. 

The recommended middle-ground here is:

- Run all node stuff on the host machine. Use [`nvm`](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) to ensure node / npm version consistency.
- Other parts of the stack (mysql, redis, elasticsearch, etc) can run in docker

## Snapshot tests first

By starting with jest snapshot tests first, we'll get broad coverage with minimal manual effort.

We can consider replacing them with unit tests as solid expectations emerge.

## Minimal flowtype

Just enough to run. It's easy to get carried away with putting annotations on _everything_, and although there is some value in this, it quickly reaches the point of diminishing returns (in our case at least).

Here's a rule-of-thumb process to follow:

- if you put `// @flow` at the top of the module, does it pass? If yes, then that's great. We should be able to maintain this.

- if there are only a few type warnings, let's add the necessary annotations

- if there are more than just a few type warnings, or other significant complications, remove the `// @flow` directive. We can revisit this later. And there are probably better ways to refactor rather than adding 50 annotations to the file (eg. refactor some functions into a separate flow-checked module).

## Control dependencies

The app should not depend on anything that is outside of its control. 

For example, if there's an npm package we need, it must be in the `package.json` with a restricted version. Don't assume global installs for critical tools.

If the app depends on some other software to run (like a database) it needs to be included in `docker-compose` config. Even if a dev needs to run the software locally and not in docker for some reason, they can at least ensure they have the correct version.

## Avoid unnecessary dependencies

Avoid adding weight to the deps unnecessarily. Something like `nodemon` is a convenience layer, and is not a foundational part of how we build or test the app. So it should be installed globally, as an opt-in, rather than as a dependency.

## Single dir for source code

All source code goes in `src`. 

We are using `babel-register` in development, but for production we'll run `babel` as part of a build step. It's easiest to do this if everything is in the one place.

