---
date: Wed Nov 01 2017 16:21:03 GMT+1100 (AEDT)
---

# To make code clearer, remove possibilities.

Consider the following:

```js
const doSomething = (list) => {
  return list.map((item) => {
    return doSomethingElse(item)
  })
}
```

A fat-arrow function with braces can have multiple lines of code. So even though there is only 1 line, when we see the braces it signals that there is _possibility_ of more.

If we remove that possibility, we can see at a glance that this function returns something, with no other effects:

```js
const doSomething = (list) => 
  list.map((item) => doSomethingElse(item))
```

Again, inside `list.map` we have a function with 1 argument `item`, and we pass that as the first argument to `doSomethingElse`. But there is the possibility that we could pass something else into this function.  Let's make it clear that's never going to happen:

```js
const doSomething = (list) => 
  list.map(doSomethingElse)
```

Now we've removed some of the noise, the intent of this function is much clearer. We give it a list, and it returns the list mapped with `doSomethingElse`.  This is not just about saving keystrokes, it's about having one less thing to think about when you're reading code, and one less opportunity for human error.

## Selecting values from an object

Here's another example:

```js
(state) => {
  return {
    foo: state.foo,
    bar: state.bar
  }
}
```

This is a common pattern of a "selector" function, where we pass in an object and return a subset of fields. But in reading this code, we have to look closely. Did we return the exact same keys that we selected? If not, was it an intentional renaming, or a typo?  We'll be better off if those questions never need to be asked:

```js
({ foo, bar }) => ({ foo, bar })
```

At first glance this code looks like nonsense. On the surface it appears to be a function that returns the same thing that we gave it!

But once we recognise the pattern it becomes readable at a glance. We have removed the possibility of renaming keys, and made less room for human error at the same time.
