---
date: Tue Sep 12 2017 08:10:43 GMT+1000 (AEST)
---

# drx

part of the problem i'm running into is the complexity of having to deal with so many variations and edge-cases. There are some special cases due to trying to match how a user probably expects things to work.

we should be able to reduce this complexity by normalizing the data as early as possible

also, by putting in a lot of `asserts` (which can be compiled out) we'll catch bad data early before it turns into a weird bug.

- when we create a wrapper component (`x({ ... })`) we are defining:
  - the props it expects
  - their default values

- children and classname are normalized to be arrays
- when we set a new default prop, we are overwriting the old default. There's no going back to the original default.
  - with `children`, setting a new default with `.children(...)` also has another meaning. It tells us that we want to use our own children rather than the children passed in.
  - there might be a better rule here. Like, literals are considered default values, but anything dynamic (function, propref, drx component, etc) is given first priority over props passed in

## walkthrough

- define a wrapper component
  - render
    - merge passed-in props with defaults from propDef

## edge cases

- trying to reference a prop that is not from the parent
  - either directly or in an `x.from`

## logging

- [ ] make a "verbose logging mode" (that can be compiled out) so we can see exactly what is happening at each step

## lists

- [ ] allow a function as the second arg.

