---
date: Mon Sep 25 2017 10:40:35 GMT+1000 (AEST)
---

# jordan peterson: rights VS responsibilities

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YnEFt20qe0o&feature=youtu.be

I do agree with some of his sentiments about responsibility VS rights. I see a very tight coupling between these two: If everyone kept their responsibilities completely, the concept of human rights would never need to be talked about. But our world falls short of this ideal. People need rights _because_ people shirk their responsibilities.

However I don't think the solution is, as he seems to say, just to tell people "stop complaining about your rights, take responsibility instead". 

First of all, this exhortation is misdirected. The people who are being crushed and appealing to their rights are often suffering at the hands of someone else's shirked responsibility. The owner of the sweatshop is not complaining.  As such, he doesn't even appear in Peterson's equation.

Secondly, he appeals to responsibilities with no foundation of how to define them. Are we so confident that one person's ideas of responsibility will not conflict with those of another? What if one decides it is their responsibility to wipe out a group of people that they feel threaten their way of life?

Here's my thought: Responsibilities can only be defined by appealing to a higher authority. For example, to a child, you can appeal to the will of their parents. "What do your parents say about keeping your room tidy?".  However one of our biggest cultural issues stems from the fact that we have idolized individual freedom. We grow up being told that nobody should tell you how to live, you should figure out what is right for you. That means there is no higher authority than yourself. So for people like Jordan Peterson, all they are left with is an impotent exhortation to the individual to "be responsible" without any way to define or empower it.

Another aspect of responsibility is that we tend to only "feel responsible" for others once our own needs have been met. There is an element of self-preservation that can always be expected. Nobody expects you to rescue someone else from drowning while you yourself are drowning alongside them. But with our heady cultural emphasis on individualism, can our over-inflated sense of self be trusted to draw the line between where our survival-needs end and our responsibilities begin?

Peterson incorporates many concepts from the bible and christianity, but it appears that he worships a philosophy rather than a living God.  He frames everything in terms of archetypes and examples to follow. Sadly, the best that the follower of "Jesus the archetype" can expect is to feel guilty when they can't live up to the example, and puffed up with pride when they can.

In contrast, a follower of Jesus the living son of the living God is continually reminded that they have already received every last thing they need. There is nothing more they need to do, or even can do, to secure a life of overflowing abundance that never runs out, that not even death can steal away. The "survival instinct" is still present, but fully satiated.

When Jesus, in his final words during his execution, said "it is finished", he meant that he had fulfilled everything he had set out to do.  The ancient greek transcripts use the word "tetelestai", which was also often used on a receipt to indicate it had been paid in full.  Every responsibility had been kept in order to provide the means for that abundant life. Because of this, a follower of Jesus can move out into the world knowing that they already have everything. They not only have great imperative for taking responsibility for the wellbeing of all other people, but great resource and power to draw upon.
