---
date: Thu Oct 19 2017 12:29:00 GMT+1100 (AEDT)
---

# upgrading electron-hot

my fork: https://github.com/joshwnj/electron-hot

Overview:

- a few libs are out of date, and `electron-prebuilt` is deprecated

- still works when I upgrade `electron` alone, but after updating `chokidar` and `chrome-remote-interface` it's not picking up changes.

- getting this error in the console:

```
UnhandledPromiseRejectionWarning: Unhandled promise rejection (rejection id: 1): Error: Unable to connect to client
```

So it's not connecting to the chrome remote debugger. First let's handle that promise rejection.

```
Error: Unknown implementation
```

from https://github.com/cyrus-and/chrome-remote-interface/blob/c6c222de4330ff3d505ff0ea0ddf1c5528d24d92/lib/devtools.js#L29

It's checking the browser against a whitelist to see if the browser is supported. I wonder what browser `electron` is reporting?

So it looks like electron reports `Browser: ''`, which is why it's failing the whitelist.

Is there a way to set that `Browser` value? Not quite sure what to search for... I can see a way to [override the `User-Agent` value](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35672602/how-to-set-electron-useragent/35672988#35672988), however it doesn't seem to be picked up by `chrome-remote-interface`.

Before going further, I can see that this browser whitelisting block was changed in `v0.25.0`. I know it worked at some point, so I'll try an older version.

Sure enough, it works fine in `v0.24.0`. That might give some clues about what changed.

Ok, one of the other things that changed in the minor version was how the `options.local` and `options.remote` defaults are handled:

https://github.com/cyrus-and/chrome-remote-interface/commit/1457e73c4893a23241406d9a174930471da2d30c#diff-9f4c72d1c55ab2ef303fc0c00bf42498L12

```diff
-    if (!options.remote) {
+    if (options.local) {
```

Instead of asking "is it _not_ remote", it's asking "_is_ it local". Without that explicit opt-in, it won't look for a local connection (which is what we have with electron). Let's try that out.

Hooray it worked!!1!

