# fission & fusion

I don't know heaps about particle physics, but I know enough to glean a metaphor from it. Someone will surely correct my understanding of how this stuff works, but bear with me. Here we go :)

We know about 2 ways of generating energy from messing with atoms: fission and fusion.

**fission** is where an atom is split. We start with something big, and we split it into smaller pieces. The key is that the smaller pieces are more stable than the 1 big piece, so they require less energy to hold together. That means there is leftover energy that isn't needed anymore. Yay, we can use that energy.

**fusion** is where you take 2 atoms and put them together to form 1 atom. Again, the resulting atom requires less energy than the sum total of the original 2, so there's some leftovers.

Now here's the metaphory part: this is a bit like software development. The atoms are the languages, tools, libraries & frameworks. The energy produced by fission or fusion equates to productivity.

Sometimes tech is pushed forwward when things are split apart into smaller pieces. Now we can get those small pieces really stable, and use them in ways we couldn't easily do when they were all clumped together.

Other times, we have so many little pieces that there is waste in the sum total of energy required to hold them all together. If they can be clumped together in a sensible way, we save all of that time we used to spend on boilerplate.

With this in mind, I think `react` is nearing the edge of an interesting precipice. The number of packages & tools needed to work with react effectively in a large scale project is becoming cumbersome. Projects like `create-react-app` are proof that there is a lot of energy to be released if you can find a good way to clump.
