# Clarity

What is the number 1 most important thing you need to be productive? Clarity.

One hour with a clear vision in your head is more valuable than a whole day of wandering around unable to grasp the bigger picture.

## Planning

Planning is the task of gaining clarity. A good plan literally allows us to see into the future and visualize something that doesn't exist yet.

A good plan is also the primary way that more than 1 person can share the same vision. Writing it down forces articulation and maturing of half-formed thoughts, and allows others to collaborate and give feedback.

## Journaling

Keeping a journal is complementary to writing a plan, and will enrich the planning process. Where a plan looks forward, a journal looks back. It is a reflective activity that evaluates past planns & executions with the benefit of hindsight.

If the journal is shared with the team, it also provides a window into your brain so that others can see how you are approaching the plan, and understand how to collaborate better.

## Interruptions

Interruptions and distractions are a big clarity-killer. You can recover from one or two, but beyond that your brain won't focus because it will be always half-anticipating the next one.

If you're trying to focus and you know there's a possibility of being interrupted, it's often better to not even start.  Just do something else, something more mechanical that you can pick up and put down.

Then when you know you'll have 1 hour free from interruptions:

- close down all email, slack, phone
- put a sign on the door saying _"I'll be out at 11:30"_
- put a timer on the phone, and avoid responding to anything short of a house fire before the timer goes off.
- re-read the high level goals and recent journal entries as a way of picking up those loose threads.
