# Time limit on tasks

idea: when starting a task, set a time limit (and use an actual timer).

- Remove as many distractions as possible during that time
- when the time is up, you're not allowed to keep going or start the clock again. Must change to some other task.
- the purpose of this constraint is to condition myself to work deliberately, thinking about the cost before going into it. If something turns out to take longer than I expected, it shifts the emphasis from _"just keep going until it's done"_ to _"spend the remaining time organising things better, so that when I next come to this task I'll be able to approach it more predictably"_.

- 30 minutes is a good starting place for new tasks that I'm not sure about. That's enough time to either complete a short task, or prepare myself for a longer one.

- it's ok to go past the timer if you're just doing final stages of wrapup, sending email, etc. But shouldn't go beyond a couple of minutes, and shouldn't introduce anything new.

## context switching

I do a lot of context switching on a daily basis. Many projects that I need to juggle and keep moving.

One way to approach this is:

- start of the day, write a list of each project that needs some attention.
- before diving into any of them, give each one a 30 minute block.
- 30 minutes is not usually enough time to "finish", so the focus is on discovery and planning. Spend the time writing a plan of what to accomplish today, and how long to devote to that.

This helps to avoid the situation of getting to the end of the day and realizing that too many important topics are untouched.

In an asynchronous team, even moving just 1 thing forward can make all the difference.

## draining & recharging

I've noticed that certain activities are very draining. It's probably different for everybody, but for me it's things like writing long emails, preparing documents, etc. It's not that I hate doing them, in fact I get a lot of satisfaction when I see that I can help people in this way. But I find them taxing and if I spend too long doing these things all at once, I'll be mentally exhausted before the day is over. These are also the kinds of tasks I tend to procrastinate the most.

Other activities are the opposite: I look forward to them and feel energised for having done them. Like working on a favourite open source project, for example.

So there's a balance to be found between these two, and I think order is significant. If I do the fun stuff first, I won't be able to put myself into it as much when I have the lurking thought that I ought to not be putting off the others. Having something hanging over your head is an absolute flow-killer.

Something I've noticed: On days where I've consciously fought procrastination and done the "draining-but-important" stuff first, I've often felt a weight lift off, and been able to go into the second half of the day with a much clearer head.

I'm going to try this and see what I find: When planning tasks for the day ahead,

- identify some "procrastination prone" things and charge into them before they have a chance to be delayed. Get them out of the way first.
- identify some "energising" things and schedule them for strategic points in the day
- don't try to fit too much into one day, otherwise it builds a habit of procrastination-by-default. Much better for personal discipline to deliberately schedule something for tomorrow, or next monday
