# keeping up

Lately I've been realising something: I can't keep up.

Maybe some people have the brains and the time to stay on top of all of the latest technology and innovation. But not me. What began as a lurking suspicion has now come into focus as a looming certainty: keeping up is not an option.

It makes me look back and wonder. Because years ago I felt like, despite considerable effort, I could just about stay ahead of that curve. I never felt like I could know everything, but I was under the clear impression that _knowing enough_ was within my reach.

So what changed? It often seems like things used to be simpler than they are now. Maybe they were. More likely I've just gained a better appreciation of how little I know.

But at least now I can put illusions to rest. Even if I could know enough today, every year there are more people entering the industry. More talented people, each bringing their own perspective and innovation. This is a wonderful thing. But it makes the pace unsustainable.

There are more competing ideas, more industry leaders, more paradigm-shifting innovations. Many of which will fail despite their brilliance, simply because it's not the right time. Trying to keep up with all of this is exhausting.

Now, maybe I'm in the minority to feel this way, and most people will keep up with ease. I'm ok with that. I'll figure out what works for me.

This is still an area I'm learning about, but some helpful things I'm finding are:

1. Cut out the noise. Have regular time away from twitter / rss / whatever. It's too much to be constantly bombarded with "new" and FOMO.

2. Focus on the underlying principles. It's cool to follow the herd and see where they go, but the principles don't change nearly as fast as the latest shiny things do.

The best thing about gaining a deeper understanding of principles is that it gives you a better reference from which to evaluate new ideas and innovations, and understand whether the tradeoffs are worthwhile for your particular situation.
